[APPLAUSE]
Thank you again. Good evening, everyone, and welcome. Thank you.
Thank you for giving me this opportunity to be with you this evening and discussing the teaching
of those great masters, masters. So I'm very honored and privileged, again, to give this
opportunity to organize this event by the Summer Buddhism Centers here in West Palm Beach,
and then as well as the unitary church. It's always been so kind, asked to host here so many
years, one after another. I have so many beautiful memories in these places, again and again. So I
'm
so thankful to all members of the unitary church, and it is board members, and as well as the
Summer
Buddhism Centers and members of this organization and the friends of everyone. So I'm so thankful
again. Thank you again. And tonight, I'm going to talk, as you already mentioned, about the
teaching,
the words of the wisdom that shared by many those great ancient masters. They practice and meditate
.
This ancient wisdom's knowledge is not something that has been ancient and cannot use modern times.
The needs of the living human beings are always similar. There's nothing really much changed.
Of course, externally, technology, there's a lot of change. The need of a human being is nothing
changed as from the ancient time and now. The words of the wisdom and the great experience,
the advice that continue from those elders, one after another, is always applied. Can we apply?
That it really makes our life so comfortable, beautiful. In our life, of course, there's so
many we go through, so many things like challenge or the experience that we go through. So many
times,
in one way, there's a lot of challenge. It's difficult, but otherwise, they're also experiencing.
It's just going through different scenic roads of the different of our lives, and we can also
bring better understanding why we're standing, what we're going to do, and what will be our
future, how we're going to handle it in our future. So this is what this great ancient, these
elders, these teachers who really also, not just they're talking that, but they also
give these instructions, and they practice, and they actualize. And when we lead lives
over those ancient, the great elders, they're so happy. They're so full of joy and peace,
and yet their love and kindness and compassion is just so overwhelming, radiating as sunlight
without clothes or the dust is shining everywhere all the time. They illuminate their self with
love
and joy and great fulfillment, and they share that knowledge to the others. And others are also
practiced with great, these beautiful ways. So this is what really, this something, knowledge,
is so important. No matter how much modern technology externally developed, as I said,
need of the human being is very similar. Nothing changed, nothing changed. So therefore,
this, the world, the wisdom, this great instruction, so we can apply it every moment, every time
in our life, so that life will become more meaningful, life will become more rewarding to us,
and life will become more legacy and beautiful so that we can make something that beautiful,
homely, nice to ourselves, our family members, and the neighbors, and the countries, you know,
to everyone. And this, so that's what this really great world of wisdom is. Now this world of
wisdom can be, in ancient times, kind of summarize those great masters and these elders into like
five points. And I'm just going to list those, and then I will go through all of these. Even when I
listed those, these points, you will know there's nothing in mystery, any separate things that we
're
talking about. We're talking something common ground, common knowledge, common need, common
nature. But we all share, share, no matter, as I said, no matter whatever color we have,
whatever language we speak, whatever we kind of like tradition or custom we have, but the design
and the hope are the very same. We like to be happy, joy, peaceful, and something fulfillment,
and something kind of rewarded to ourselves that we don't have to be disappointed ourselves when we
look back to our life, trails of our lives. So this really, these those points will help us to
activate
it, to bring back to our track so that we can stand firmly in our ground and look ahead to our
future destination and as well as our area and so on. These are five points. First is the joy,
joy and the appreciations. Second is courage and commitments. And the third is mindfulness.
And the fourth is loving kindness and compassion. And the fifth is relaxing my mind,
which is often known as meditation. So these are the five different points that really touch to our
own true naturals. Nature of ourself, this all nature of ourself that what I listed or what these
great elders are listed and shared are is nothing alien or the strange things that okay or nothing
has to do also in the religious or the or the schools, these schools, that school. This is our
basic nature, basic call it ourself, self, your self, my self. And we stand firmly on this ground,
acknowledging and a reward that these naturals definitely it will make our life so beautiful,
so calm, so peaceful, so this is what it is. So it's nothing to do anything kind of a different
tradition or the different systems. It is our naturals. The first is these five points as I said
you are listed. The first is joy. Joy is what we have good start of ourself. Joy is so important.
And without the joy, we cannot actualize anything. And without also recognizing the joy,
we ignore so many good things. When we look to ourself, our career, our behaving of our mind,
we are always looking something outside and far always looking more than what we have.
We don't really glorify, cherish and acknowledge our goodness, our joy and our what situation we
have. Because ourself, we cannot carry it outside thinking more and more and miss the point.
And therefore, joy is important. We have every reason to be joy. In every situation,
and many times in Buddhism we called in the samsara level, worldly level, in the spiritual level,
we have every reason to be joy and appreciate it. In the samsara level or worldly level,
we are beautiful human beings, beautiful human beings, beautiful intelligence.
Our being as a human being is also not just co-accidental. Co-accidental. It has
many cause and conditions, circumstances behind the scenes that maybe we don't see immediately,
we don't know immediately. But definitely there is so many cause and conditions. Circumstances
came perfectly to bring out ourself as what we are now. Now, if there is among these so many
circumstances situation, if one ingredient missed or few ingredients lost, we won't have what we
are now. We won't have. Our cause is completely changed. But what we are now, look to yourself,
read yourself how good things you are, how good things I am surrounded. And therefore, joy of
lives. Do you read that? I am beautiful human beings. I have quite good intelligence. I have good
knowledge, understanders. Can you feel those? Those are the beginning of the glorifying,
bringing joy and peace in our lives. Joy is so important, important. Then joy of all the
certain circumstances such as this country. I always tell to my friends, this country is one
of the best country on this planet, on Earth. Again, this is what just also happened. So many
people worked so hard to bring this situation and circumstances. In a way, we are using this fruit
of all those good deeds of the past. And how wonderful. This is beautiful again. How thankful.
We have gratitude. Bring gracefulness. Bring gracefulness and gratitude is not just spiritual,
but it is human values and goodness of ourselves. Being grateful, gratitude,
graceful. And we do this. I feel joy and being grateful and appreciated. What it brings to us
people ourselves are more rich. Even though this country and yourself are quite rich in the world,
but it makes more rich, more heart is rich, not just external material become rich, but it really
makes heart full of reach and prosperity. And then it brings back peace and calm, happiness.
This all is started from here with you. It's not just looking outside going these and that
things. Of course, we can get some support outside these things, but principally is we have to
start
ourself. Button is with you. You have to push the button yourself. There's nothing we have to do,
big change and all these things. Bring yourself. Be yourself. Be that in just glorified situation
and circumstances, joy, appreciations, being grateful, being grateful, grateful. Those all
are, makes our life so rich, so beautiful and so special. Not really become life's reach and it's
happy. It makes also our family more rich, calm and peaceful. Our friends and all those who are
connected to us really will see the benefit of this joy and appreciation. So this is not something
that we're doing locally to our own self. Self can be important level. But it brings, opens heart
and brings more beautiful panoramic understanding view of the vastness of our beauty and our
richness
in our self that radiating, lightening and sharing benefit to the others. So therefore, this joy is
so important. Joy, I say the joy, appreciation, being grateful, grateful, gratitude, all those
terminologies, whatever we have to acknowledge. And we look to ourselves many times. Even we are
surrounded with so many good things, such as friends, family, all these things. We come many
times looking at something else. We miss the point. When we miss the point and then we kind of
maybe
suffer. Said that's a letter too late. We have to now acknowledge. Now is the important. Now will
change the future. Take all those great ancient elders. You say take ancient activity as your
experience, learning experience and stand firm with that experience on the now and change the
direction of the future. They always say that. Those donuts. It's so important. They're so
practical.
It's not something that we have to be something, certain things to be, to do those things. As I
said, we can be as we are. Nothing changed, but just glorify our self. So that is really about the
joy and appreciation. Second is this great elder masters. So we said courage, courage and
commitment. Courage is needed. Even though we are surrounded with all those beautiful things,
in the samsara, in the world, any minute can change. Change is a continual flowing system
as rivers. Nothing lasts forever as it is. It is like rollercoaster or it is like moving force.
Therefore, we need courage. We need commitment to standing firmly on those old changes we go
through this. We should not lose our principles, our identity of the goodness, courage and
commitment. And we will become so timid and sensitive. Then everything becomes so bothered.
Everything is completely kind of like obstacles or the blockage and hindrance. And then we kind of
like parachute and overthrow by that. But if we have courage and commitment, stand firmly on this
our identity of goodness. The course we can change. We can change the course. And as I said before,
many of those elder masters you see, the what we were going through is learning experience,
changing experience. Use that as changing experience. Learn that as learning experience.
We be strong, friendly and standing tall in our principles. Also in ourselves, we have the great
courage. Not being a human being is not just only surviving, but we like to be also benefited to
the
others. Surviving is everybody does, even animals does. Animals does surviving things. We are
beautiful, intelligent human beings. We like to be more benefited. Beneficial is the whole mark
of the good persons, good human beings to benefit it. To start benefited to your families, your
friends, and then extend the neighbors and country according your readiness and capabilities. But
we
have to do benefited. We have to help and support something meaningful ourselves. If we started
benefiting, helping to the others. Others. You really feel again, same thing. You feel more happy,
more joy. You're doing something good things. Not just the only kind of trying to
self-center the local, like the kind of narrow status all the time. That kind of blocks it. That
kind of like drops us, but every kind of open our heart and arms to the others, trying to let it
help and support more beneficial, more benefited beings. That is again to do this. We need to let
a courage. We need to let a commitment. We need to let it be done again, kind of like
responsibilities.
And we do this. This is known as then, not just the only kind of like our self to make better,
but you're really outreaching good quality to the others, others. And that is a wonderful things,
good things to do, helping, support. We benefited to the others. That is well-brained the
fulfillment in the lives. You become quite fulfilled. Your quality and your activity,
your capability is extending. According to the great masters or in the Buddha's teaching said,
human beings generally have so many talents, so many capabilities. This is ready to come out,
but how many times our ego-cling, narrow-minded, almost block that always. You cannot let it come
out because of this, our habit patterns. But if we're trying to really help and support,
that brings out of your talent and your skills, your methods to help to the others,
to others and bring your qualities. You become more than, I mean, whoever did this, we become more
successful, more powerful, more beneficial, more gentle. Through that, what we call,
we create the peace and harmonious. You become one of the mission of the peace,
bring peace and harmony, good things in the world. That not just start from outside,
start from you, with your gentle courage and commitment and aspirations. So therefore,
again, all those reasons in this world, there's so many things, different things,
one after another can happen, changes like running river, and therefore to kind of standing firmly,
not lost our balance, is courage, courage and commitment with joy and appreciation.
That is what really so important.
The next one is then the next point, about mindfulness. Now, what I discuss, I mean,
I said, it's not just I'm saying I learned these things from these great elder masters.
They practice, as he said, they're not just a talker talking this, but they really practice it,
and they share their experience and knowledge for the others. And as also, I kind of try to
follow with that as much as I can do my capabilities. So with this, first is joy. Again, I said
that,
really about the joy. Second is courage and commitment. That also I said really this,
third is mindfulness. Mindfulness is very important. Mindfulness is not distracted too much,
not lost the balance. Your awareness, your intelligence, or our awareness, our
intelligence is kind of like alert state, or is illuminating, or it is lightning status. It's not
darkness. We don't have the mindfulness. What? We destruct it. We destruct it, and the destructions
of all the different external destructions of so many busyness, and as well as all this
kind of activity that brings so many kind of like computations, or so many kind of like
information to our self, and then we destruct it. In our self, also we then, when that happened,
inwardly we destruct it with so many different emotions. And emotions are, such as then,
all the emotions, such as anger, and kind of like hatred, thought, or kind of like
unsufficient, unhappiness, unhappiness. I mean, so many emotions are really beginning to disturb
that. When our mind is completely congested with this, then all these confusion things comes up,
anxiety, and worry, and then kind of like completely lost our control. For those reasons,
there's one very renowned teacher known as Shanti Deva. He said, "A very distracted person is
always
on the mouth of the emotions." He said, "Mouth of negative emotions." It's true, every kind of like
,
very distracted, and not have any mindfulnesses, and then we kind of always, the emotions are
really
can attract to us easily, and all through that. And therefore, this is with joy, and courage,
and commitment, mindfulness is very, very important. Mindfulness, as I said, to remember,
and thinking, kind of more thoughtful, more careful, more thoughtful to our activities,
activities of our body, our activities, our verbal activities, and mental activities,
kind of a little bit thoughtful, and how our personal mind is working, because we're always
looking outside. We hardly look inwardly to our self, and bring calm, and very peaceful,
and remind only means you can bring calm, and peace, and gentle to yourself.
And that means we're not completely carried by the outforce, very inwardly, calm, and peaceful,
and thoughtful, every activities, activities of the body, activities of the verbal, and activities
of the mind. And what is what? The activities of the body, when we become kind of put in the
mindfulness, our activity body become more calm, peaceful, more relaxing systems. And our activity
of the verbal, verbal, again put in the red spot of the mindfulness, and the speech become more
polite, more kind, more soft, more gentle, more respectful. All those good things really follow,
close up. And activities of the mind, when put in the red spot of the mindfulness, then again,
it become more calm, and peaceful, not carried by so many emotions all the time, kind of really
settling towards us. And so therefore, this mindfulness, and this very important, together
with mindfulness, and alertness, or thoughtful, all those are well supported to bring up the joy,
and courage, it will bring us back to the track where we are going to moving forward. So therefore,
mindfulness is very, very important. So this is really about mindfulness. Now I will talk
really about love and comparisons. Love and comparison is again very important part of the
nature of our mind. It's nothing again alien, or strange, anything, as everything. Joy is not any
strange. Courage and commitment is not strange. And mindfulness is nothing strange. It's part of
our nature of the mind, or our mind. And together with love and comparison is our part of the mind.
Love and comparison is generally what means love. Love means something to you,
see everyone so special and beautiful. Thank you. It's okay. Thank you.
Sound troubles. Okay. Thank you.
Love and compassion is again, is many times, is okay.
Sorry. Oh, I'm sorry. But I think it's okay. No, with this looks like, okay. So
loving kindness and compassion is one of the principal beautiful qualities of every living
beings. In the infant, in the Buddha's teaching, the great master came 2,600 years ago. He says,
love and compassion, the intelligence are the seed of enlightenment, seed of the waking,
waking qualities. This love and compassion, intelligence or the wisdom is not kind of
absence to anyone. So we all have this nature. Every living beings, even this great teacher,
Buddha said that even the animals have love and compassion, wisdom. No one is out of these
qualities. But to bring out that is what is so important. Bring out, let that shine. This
nature is right with us. Nature is not outside. This is all what we talk tonight is not outside.
We have to go and get from other planet or something have to be reached or something be
very famous, powerful, any of those things we don't have to be. Nature is really with us. This,
this all our treasure, your treasure, my treasure. And every bring loving kindness, loving kindness
.
It would bring what? It will bring all those what I said. It bring mindfulness. It bring
bring joy and apprehensions. It will bring also courage and commitment. And therefore this love
and compassion is so important. I mean it's great. And compassion is too. It also when we have the
great compassion, it brings joy. Activity of compassion is joyful activities. And it brings
also is mindfulness. It will bring courage and commitment. And we do activity of compassion,
you will feel also more like really fulfilling. I'm doing something good. So not just empty handed
or not doing anything. You feel you're really doing, you are using our beautiful life to something
good purposes. You in the eye of the Buddha or eye of the holy beings. That you really feel that
you were doing something good. This is therefore loving kindness and compassion is so important.
Vastra. And love is again what they always in the teaching you say those great master says what is
love? Love is something seeing everyone is good. Everyone is important. Important is true. Everyone
is so important. Because of others, others I'm here. Here. Because of you, I'm here. For example,
tonight. Tonight without you, I won't be here tonight. That is this is not just only tonight.
Everything in the life is kind of is so important. Everyone is so important and so spirituals.
Without others, we won't grow. We won't develop. We won't be successful folks. And that level is
also
so important. Then each and every one is so beautiful. So spiritual. There's just like shining
stars in the galaxy. Everyone is shimmering, is glowing. It is beautiful things. So many beautiful
things. And also because of others, I can grow. I can deepen it. I can really make something better
.
My self even thinking of my own self without others. How we can do anything. For all those reasons,
this whole and others are so important. So special and so beautiful. And the love is also known as
the
appreciation. Love is seeing beauty in good qualities. And love is so tender. So nice. When
you have the love and compassion in your heart, your heart becomes more tender, more calm, more
peaceful. More also same time. Sensitives, more knowledge. Understandables. Understand not just
only not knowing anything around us. We become more aware of the old situation. Circumstances.
Life with love and compassion remain rich or everyone life makes more rich, more knowledgeable,
more understandable. Without the scholars on the world level, we really also can't achieve too much
.
In the Dharma level, on the spiritual level, Buddhism always says without the love and
the compassion, you won't fulfill anything in your realization or the inner development.
And so therefore, this love is so important. Loving kindness. Then compassion is so important too.
Compassion is in our life, even though so beautiful, so special, but there's so many different
changes
will come. Life is now always the same. Changes. And we all go through a different challenge and
difficulties. The compassion is a mission to help, to support, to rescue when we are on a challenge
in a difficult situation. It's an outreaching kind of solution. Help with that. We need this.
Everyone
needs compassion. I need compassion. You need compassion. No matter how much powerful by person,
they need compassion. They need love. How much strong they are, they need rich and everyone. This
compassion and loving kindness, without that, human beings of our life become very poor,
very kind of impoverished and very desperate situations. And love and compassion really makes
everything so strong, so beautiful. If we combine with joy and appreciation, courage and commitment
,
mindfulness, then we have every richness of what all we needed. Think this. I'm not just
talking this ancient, those great elders said these things. We should apply that. Think of our own
intelligence. Think. It's true or not. It's true. How we can argue with this? This is something so
special and beautiful. Beautiful. Beautiful. Therefore, this love and compassion. Compassion
is just so spiritual. And in Buddhism, always say how to do practice of loving kindness. They say,
even the giant, they spray it. They use it as like a cigarette of mantras. Mantra or the cigarette
zone. They say loving kindness practice. They say, may all living beings have the happiness and
cause
of happiness. May all living beings have the happiness and cause of happiness. Think then
sincerely in the heart and the mind and say that word. And how powerful. Love is not just like
localized and narrowly kind of things. Love, let shine love, powerful love, as sunlight to every
direction without any partiality and without any boundaries. Boundaries. Again, with that,
with this thought, we really say that word or that meaning, meaning in our mind.
May all living beings have happiness and then cause of happiness. Think that meaning. How powerful,
how strong, how spiritual. That has again nothing to do with any religions or this school, that
school.
We're talking about the love, the principle value and the principle quality of our very human
beings.
That is what we're talking. Let that shine, not just cross it or not just put the boundaries.
Let that shine to every direction, to all living beings. As I said, everyone needs love.
No matter how much rich you are, how bold or how weak, how powerful, how strong, how renowned you
are,
they all need loves. They all need loves. Everyone. So let that shine, let that open.
And we do this. What it makes, you know, always those great adults, you see,
it makes us more stronger, it makes more our sensitives, it makes ourselves more kind of like
happy. And then also, after all, it makes great healing powers. It heals all the emotional
skirt that we have something. Kind of we feel we didn't do this right, that wrongs. Or we have some
disappointment. Or we have something kind of like regretous or guiltous. Whatever. It will heal
those.
This is not something shadow we're going to keep all the time. We're going to release,
we're going to remove, bring more sunlight in our heart and mind and move forward.
Forward. That is what really we need to do. That's what it says. So when we're thinking of that,
may all living beings have happiness and cause of happiness. Not just only happiness, cause of
happiness. When you think that, when you say that, that means that they always say happiness.
Happiness is not just a come by go accidentally. Happiness must have cause and condition and
circumstances. We're wishing and praying and putting our power of mind forward to bring more
restraint of this cause of happiness. This is so divine. There's in many great those ills you see.
There's nothing higher divine, more holy than the true love and true compassion. This is the
object of venerations. That is right with your heart. Heart. With each of us. Everyone's heart.
We'll open it that divine call it. Then we'll open it that holy call it. Not let trapped it by
the boundaries of the different emotions. Open that. That is what really is so, so powerful,
so speak. And then next one. That is really about the loving kindness. Compassion. Again, it's same
.
As I said, compassion is a rescue mission of our talent when loved ones having some
difficulties, troubles. In our, everybody we go to through the challenge is life.
There's no one exception. Everybody goes different challenges in their lives.
Those challenges are always sometimes very challenging, very hard and difficult. That is
the time we need. Need compassion, activator of compassion. It is. It's best upon the love and
compassion, coming out compassion. Help me. And again in Buddhism, those integrated, they
join this. This is again is not really when you look, think of this place, nothing to do with
Buddhism, this and that things. Think this, how they say this. This is one of the richest country
on the earth. There's so many multiple cultures and talents. Our border of this country makes
so rich and so special. And similarly spiritual, all knowledge, understand this knowledge and
skills and techniques. Every brain, the different things and brain kind of put that together. Bring
ourselves a more better person as we are even better than now. That is what we need. And to do
kind of activating our compassion in this, they say, wow, they said, may all living beings, again
same thing, may all living beings preform suffering and cause of sufferings. That is what they,
they
really said that. Pay that world meanings, preform suffering and cause of sufferings. We're really
wishing throughout this time, again as same as of love and kindness. Two things. We like to be free
,
everyone from the suffering, not just only the suffering, but cause of that suffering.
When we go to the challenge of difficulties, it's not just happening by itself or it's just
coincidental. It has cause, it has conditions, it has circumstances, that kind of sizzling behind
the scene, maybe many years or for a long time. And then when all come, it erupted and we see the
consequences of such sufferings. So we like to be removed, that consequences, that cause
also cleared way. When cause and condition and suffering is cleared way, what will be sufferings?
Then suffering is gone. When suffering is gone, what will be? Then happiness, peace, joy.
And then that is what we call, suffering as a difficulty is gone. What is known as then? In
human world, called heaven. Heaven is nothing but pre from the place, pre from the suffering, the
difficulties. We make everyone free from the suffering and cause of sufferings. That place
is heaven. Heaven is not that far you have to go. Heaven started right with ourselves.
That's true. Heaven is not that we have to buy the two way tickets.
Heaven is right with us. We have every right to bring that heaven as call it. We have the right,
we have the, we have all the talents and skills and method and everything we have.
That is what we have. So this love and compassion is again so important.
Without the love and compassion, there is no spirituals. Without the love and compassion,
there are no higher growth of the development of our inner development. Without the love and
compassion, then we will be, but we will become decreasing all our talents and we will be heading
to all the difficult stuff. And therefore, this love and compassion is so important.
As every levels, it is healing power. It is reward. It makes reach our life. It makes
happy ourselves, our self, our family, our friend, our neighbor, everyone. Really it brings bond
and
it makes it a harmony and peace. This all start with this, this. So therefore, this is one of the
great qualities of the human beings. And then also when we have that, it brings more calm and
peaceful. Immediately result of this calm and peaceful of the mind in our self. So that is
really about the loving kindness and compassion. Next one is I'm going to talk really about again
as this great elders. You see the meditation, meditations. Meditation is what I discussed
so far, what I said. Again, I go back to those points. But those great elders, you see always
first is joy and appreciation. Second is courage and commitment. Commitment. And third is
mindfulness.
And the fourth is loving kindness and compassion. Those all will make, what means meditation?
Meditation means calm and peaceful and balance actually. That's really the balance of our mind.
If we have those first four points, if we do, it will bring our mind calm,
non-feastful, more relaxed, more harmony, more peaceful. It will break that. But if we have this,
with those all beautiful qualities, if we add this meditation, then it will make more
more, more fulfillment, more successful. And what is meditation? Generally, as I said, and of
course,
many of you know what it is. That's something new things I'm talking that you don't know.
We all know these things we're talking. It's meditation means relaxing our mind,
relaxing our mind. When we heard the word relaxing our mind, what also it tells us, most of the
time
we don't relax our mind. We're not relaxing our mind. Where we are running, what are we doing?
It's also directly talking more, talking with our mind. We're not relaxing our mind.
Mind. So relaxed, not relaxing. Where our mind is going, not relaxing that. Where our mind is going
to all the time, to the past memories, or our present kind of thoughts and conceptions,
or future our plans. So it is going three territories, all the time. Mind is going all
the time, three territory. To the past, to the present, and to the future. That is what really
our mind is doing all the time. If you look carefully to our mind, read your mind. No one
is out of the mind. Everybody can read. Read our own mind. Mind. And you read where we used to.
It just always mind is wandering to the past, or to the present, from this, all the, all future.
That is what really the mind is doing. That means this how many times we did this by mind.
This is being doing all the time. Since our, since we're born, we've been doing that.
Even a child in babies, in babies, what they call the carriages, I'm sure they're going somewhere.
But when they start walking, they're going somewhere. Again, they have their own phenomena,
own world. When we're in kindergarten, we're doing the same thing. We have our own territory,
and that standard, standard levels. We're running our mind. When we're in school, doing the same
thing. When we're in high school, we have that standard again. We're a professional business
person, or walking career. We're doing the same thing. We've been doing that all the time.
Mind is never rested. Physically, yes, we do rest sometimes. We say vacation, and break, and all
these things. Day off, all these things. But mind never really rested. That you can think. It's not
just talking by someone, telling stories. You can ask that if it's true or not. Each of us is true.
That is. Then how this mind is going? Again, have you looked? The day we wake up early in the
morning,
we do go wandering all the time, our journey, daytime phenomena, busy, and all that. All this
going back and forth. The kind of electric currents in the brain. The mind is going back and forth,
all this, and then adding worries. Stressful, overloaded. This is just completely jammed, our
brain, with all those topics, and in a way, and then mind becomes tighter, and tighter, and dense,
and dense. Even mind is always in the Buddhism, say the emptiness. Empliness, but in a way,
we experience, it becomes so heavy, and so tight, and so burdened, burdened things.
Then not just only the day we wake up, and until we go to sleep, but in the nighttime, according to
Buddhism, always say, unless you went deep sleep, every sleeping light state, our mind is traveling
again. This deep sleep mind doesn't work. It kind of stops to that. Otherwise, all the fun is
running.
So therefore, we need some breath to this our mind. Breath. And the breath is the meditation.
Meditation. Relaxing. We are going to relax. We're going to relax with the present status,
right in our present. We're not going to, that means we're not going to think of the past,
all our activities, of the things, or the future, our plans, or even not going to wander in the
present. Present all plans, this and that things. We're going to bring our mind one single instant
state of our own state, and relax. If you bring mind, not let go to the past, not let go to the
future, not wander in the present status, and the mind has completely become singled out,
then it becomes stay in that state. Now, when you stay in one single state at the moment,
status, mind is not going to stay that, that status. At that time, you're going to put mindfulness
again. Mindfulness, you're going to use. Yes. Where to do this meditation? According to tradition,
those are kind of experience and structure of those great elder masters, what this is. Past
brain, for example, when you sit on the cushion or on the chair, post your brain any more joy,
more appreciation. Thankful to everyone. Thankful to your old situation, circumstances,
graceful, great. Bring joy to support present joy and appreciation. If you don't know exactly
how to do meditation, joy, as I said, the intellectual, the good quality is what you have,
or what we have. It's not just accidental. As I said before, it has so many beautiful
cause and reason to really bring up this. Have this. It's true. Therefore, thankful joy,
thankful, thankful for all our important beings, grateful, gratitude,
graceful, and bring joy, joy and relax in that state for a few seconds.
Then, now you're going to meditate. After that, now you're not going to even think of joy,
any of those things. Just kind of like stop from any thinking thoughts. Think a thought, relax,
relax in the present status, and feel the body yourself. It is all balanced. Every nervous
system is relaxed in its own natural status. Every energy movement is also relaxed in its
own natural state. Kind of keep that message to yourself. My body, muscles, nervous system is
relaxed. My energy and everything is now relaxed. I'm going to relax in my breathing calmly,
exactly as it is. Nothing changes the breathing level exactly, but keep calm and feasible.
Now, mind has become so calm and peaceful, not wondering all those positive qualities
of the past, the present, the future, and the relaxed and the present state. Stay calm and
peaceful. And we need some gentle assistance to keep that concentration. Use your breathing.
Keep the breathing. So, close the mouth. Don't have to close the mouth tightly or in the open,
but keep the normal close in the mouth and let gentle or the breathing comes naturally
from your nostrils and follow the mind with the breathing. You see the breathing when you go out
or exhale, you're aware of the breathing is out or breathe out. When breathing comes in, inhale,
also you aware that. So, kind of have the awareness of the breathing's movement and the relaxing.
Follow the mind with that. Try to stay with that. For example, if you have to feel that,
five minutes. It really will help us. It will weak our mind, keep the calm and peaceful with
that natural status. It will help. Help to bring everything more calm and peaceful. All those
tensions, all those stressfuls, all those thought and busyness is just completely subside. You
really
touch your inner core of the true nature of your own beings. That's natural. And relax. It's so
beautiful. Keep doing that every time. Maybe two times, three times, or occasionally even in the
office, for example, look to your mind for a few minutes, a few minutes to look to your own mind
and relax and not wonder. Just keep, let it break, break. That really will help and support always
those great elder masters. It really will help. It's true. It really helps. It brings calm and
peaceful. That is known as meditation. When we do the meditation, so therefore, meditation is also
nothing, any unusual, strange things, except relaxing our mind. That's it. Really good heart,
good mind. That's it. So that is my brief kind of like talk about this evening and by what I heard
from this great elder masters who really practice, good elder practitioners who practice these
things
and really act like this realization so beautifully. And those great, those elders, sometimes it
looks
like externally, they're so, so uncomfortable. Looks like, looks like all the kind of not so rich
in poverty, the state of heart kept steady. But in health, they're so joy, so happy. They don't
complain any. They feel nothing but appreciating and joy and being graceful. That really brings
brings by these techniques. So therefore, this is very important and beautiful. And I'm very happy
again. I had the opportunity to share and to talk with you. And so thankful to everyone again.
Thank
you. Thank you everyone. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We have some questions. I'm
happy to discuss your time. Yes, please. What about those of us who are quite hyper? Hyper means
one. Those of us who are quite hyper, do meditation. Really meditate for maybe let's say
for five minutes. Really it will help. Generally energetic. Happel must be means energetic.
So it's good. Nothing good. But it will make you stronger and happier and do that
meditation for five minutes. Let's start with the joy.
Yes, thank you. You talked about love and compassion being so important to achieve
happiness and joy and peace. And when I think of love and compassion, the first person that
it needs to start with is you, to love you and be compassionate about you. Because when you love
you
and be compassionate about yourself, you can keep your mind in the present. You can
not worry about the past or about the future and focus on everything positive that's happening
for you. That's true. Definitely. When I'm talking with love and compassion, it's not that
something
you love or outside. You have to love to yourself. You have to be kind to yourself. Yeah. And it'll
be kind to compassion to yourself. But so this love and compassion is not kind of one
focus to one direction. It's focused to the both to one's own side to the other. So even maybe I
didn't highlight that that point, but definitely you have to love. You have to compassion like that
.
Therefore, this is love. Our life is so important, so so special, so so precious.
With all our personal life, we cannot really do anything there. Therefore, I have to be thankful
and happy and love and keep doing good things to yourself in order to also do others. Right.
So it's loving yourself enough to avoid things that make you feel bad. If there's something in
your life that is distracting you, that is making you feel bad, then get away from it. Avoid it.
Yeah, that's also true. You have to see according to your capabilities, your situations. If
something
that you can benefit to the others, if something's bothering you, if you can benefit it, you can do
something so you will help it. If somehow you cannot do that, then you're trying to avoid it and
you
should not become yourself in that trouble and make some kind of like an indirect helping support
to solve those problems if you can. Otherwise, then what we have to do, we have to just pray.
Thank you.
Yes, please.
What is your vision of the world, the future?
The future. What is your vision of the future?
My vision of the future, I hope it will be really a good beautiful world. I really hope and I pray
that that is my hope and pray. My vision, what I like to be, I like to be world as golden age.
That's really my vision. So I don't know if I can achieve or not. That is different. But there, I
pray.
Yes, please.
Hello. I teach ninth and tenth grade English here in Palm Beach County and many of the students
come into the classroom with a lot of aggression and pain that they've experienced and
I try and speak with as much compassion as possible to them. But I'm not perfect and sometimes I
speak
out of anger or frustration and I've noticed they listen to me more when I speak out of anger and
frustration. And I know that that's the pattern that I grew up in my household and that many of
them grow up in their household is that they listen to somebody when it is with anger but if it is
not
then it is to not be heated as much, not to be listened to as much. How can I speak to my students
who have those pain, who have that pain, with compassion and still
hope that they listen to me and still keep their attention and create that environment?
That's wonderful. That is definitely, I mean, you have to help to those students as much as you can
but even you're speaking those kind of very tough way or those with emotions it looks like
but trying to stay with compassion and loving kindness and really you're talking to them trying
to make them better person in the future or knowledgeable person future thinking of them
really that and what they were told you have to use that and then really with love and compassion
for their pretty better purpose or better life and better their knowledge and understanding
with that thought then I think if you speak some kind of those letter with emotion I don't think
it's really bad and but as long as they listen and good and then I think it's good you should do
but
yourself are trying to not become emotion and more kind and compassion so your compassion and
loving kind is reflected in that harsh statement but yet is really is a compassion and that I think
is really I think okay I believe. Thank you. Yes. Yes. All I do when I have the kids like
that I just asked them I said how can I help you be what you want to be? That's wonderful really
that's another skillful way skillful means way to ask you to those questions to the children's
children's or those young ones what do you like to see in the future but so really those are the
skillful ways and then maybe you those proper teachers can kind of they're gradually to their
destination or what they like to be with that that is also another I think it's definitely
beautiful you have to play play I think there are many different kinds of techniques of skillful
but always with the love and compassion in heart really that is like that is the principle as much
as we can say and then helping to support accordingly to their need and according more
their knowledge and understand what like they like to be if you can direct that that is best
really the teacher and the best parent really that's what should bring up those growth that
state is just really wonderful then they will become I think one of the very beautiful some
of the beautiful beings. Thank you. Yes if we sit down to meditate and we want to sort of let go
of the tensions or the things we struggled with in the classroom that day or something
but it's very difficult like let's say our mind is very restless or you know these thoughts keep
grabbing us if our thoughts carry us away they grab us how can we what can we do to help
calm our mind focus our mind and actually even for five minutes meditate
was there some other something we can do to let go this is I mean what I said tonight and many of
you know more than those things more instructions what I said tonight is basic basic things really
basic kind of starting point is and with that then you can use more techniques if you really like
to
know more kind of like more kind of more strongly approach then you can add another one you can
concentrate to the object instead of breathing you can concentrate the object if that if you like
to
do those make it kind of some effort possibly and right in front of you you can put maybe a small
table on that front table you can put a small small object or small marble marble and like that is
a
focus of meditation stone or my meditation marble and then put that and now you're going to
concentrate
to do that and keep the posture or the body and the energy level breathing level same but now
eye is looking to that marble marble and keep to that or marble any object I say they use the
marble but the small one don't have to be a big kind of kind of like small even tiny small
stones stone kind of shiny is good because it catches eye catch it I catch it catches eye
I so small one put right in front of there and then just stay your hand can be this way or putting
on your knee both palms on the knee or sometimes say that this is the meta-economity gestures so
that means our mind is with you with ours us mind is not just wondering mind is now settling
this is the gesture they use that too so either one but just relax and really focus to that object
that means your mind is with eye eye is two eyes are like to that object almost created not almost
the creator like triangle or point this point and that is to the that marble that object and
concentrate that and then well you're constantly that way again mind will go away this is just a
normal is nothing unusual everybody does that everybody because but so as soon as you notice
to buy the mindfulness and bring back without questioning any things and we start questioning
what is this we're making more thoughts then yes it become again more thoughts so don't buy any
question don't make any kind of say as soon as we notice it bring back mind to that concentration
see how long you can stay that's trying to be little bit kind of like really with the strengthen
I'm going to stay this with this with the object this my mind I'm going to stay with one minute
really going to stay it's kind of like really think that and then stay if you're able to stay
or anybody can able to stay one minute to be that concentration our mind is settling that
but however it will be difficult always the thought comes out in some case more even looks
like more thoughts coming than ever all the emotions all that really that happened too
is nothing unusual everybody that happened that is just the processes but is even though you feel
more thoughts are coming than ever it's not true before we don't notice it noticed and now we
noticed noticed and that is for example I think you put it like in the big cities those people
sitting in the big city there's so many topics going back and forth they don't think anything is
normal it's normal but some people come from on the countryside then they will say oh so much
topics so many things happening that they will see this and people who are going through don't
see that so now when you are meditating almost you're really kind of coming to the more relaxing
areas come here then you will notice that all those thoughts are coming so it's not more
thoughts are coming it's just a regular thought but you're noticing that notice that so therefore
even though things happen again point is come continue to stay to that object focus that
objects when you're kind of focused a little while good report three four minutes that it looks
like
then you don't have to use those objects then you relax relax then maybe your mind is more
calmer more peaceful and more stable for three minutes and you do this again and again this is
not going to work for three minutes or four days and a few months and many of those great
practitioners really practice this for years years and then they see the big beautiful result comes
so if we do even everyday five minutes or ten minutes something we do really well bring good
result good benefit but have to do again that's what we need joy that's what we need courage and
commitment that's what we need this mindfulness that's what we need this love and compare your
thought that all was supported and to bring this this to the fulfillment okay thank you everyone
again thank you